In computer science, a tree is a widely used abstract data type (ADT)—or data structure implementing this ADT—that simulates a hierarchical tree structure, with a root value and subtrees of children with a parent node, represented as a set of linked nodes.

A tree data structure can be defined recursively (locally) as a collection of nodes (starting at a root node), where each node is a data structure consisting of a value, together with a list of references to nodes (the "children"), with the constraints that no reference is duplicated, and none points to the root.

Alternatively, a tree can be defined abstractly as a whole (globally) as an ordered tree, with a value assigned to each node. Both these perspectives are useful: while a tree can be analyzed mathematically as a whole, when actually represented as a data structure it is usually represented and worked with separately by node (rather than as a set of nodes and an adjacency list of edges between nodes, as one may represent a digraph, for instance). For example, looking at a tree as a whole, one can talk about "the parent node" of a given node, but in general as a data structure a given node only contains the list of its children, but does not contain a reference to its parent (if any).
Parts of tree
Root
The top node in a tree.
Child
A node directly connected to another node when moving away from the Root.
Parent
The converse notion of a child.
Siblings
A group of nodes with the same parent.
Descendant
A node reachable by repeated proceeding from parent to child.
Ancestor
A node reachable by repeated proceeding from child to parent.
Leaf
(less commonly called External node)
A node with no children.
Branch
Internal node
A node with at least one child.
Degree
The number of subtrees of a node.
Edge
The connection between one node and another.
Path
A sequence of nodes and edges connecting a node with a descendant.
Level
The level of a node is defined by 1 + (the number of connections between the node and the root).
Height of node
The height of a node is the number of edges on the longest path between that node and a leaf.
Height of tree
The height of a tree is the height of its root node.
Depth
The depth of a node is the number of edges from the tree's root node to the node.
Forest
A forest is a set of n ≥ 0 disjoint trees.
